# Gluster Community Meeting -  08/06/2021


### Previous Meeting minutes:

- [Meeting Minutes](https://github.com/gluster/community/tree/master/meetings)

### Date/Time: Check the [community calendar](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MDQ0YmRydTllMXYzdWFoMmpsbjdqNXJlYmNfMjAyMDEwMjdUMDkwMDAwWiBzYWptb2hhbUByZWRoYXQuY29t&tmsrc=sajmoham%40redhat.com&scp=ALL)

### Bridge
  - 2nd / 4th Tuesday's, 02:30PM IST
  - Bridge: https://meet.google.com/cpu-eiue-hvk


-------

### Attendance
Name (#gluster-dev alias) - company

*  Ayush Ujjwal - Red Hat
*  Ravi - Red Hat
*  Sunil - Red Hat
*  Pranith Kumar K - PhonePe
*  Saju Mohammed  - Red Hat
*  Nishith Vihar - Red Hat
*  Srijan Sivakumar - Red Hat
*  Rafi KC - iTernity

### User stories
* [Rafi] Our org updated from Gluster5 to Gluster-8.5

### Community

* Project metrics:

|    Metrics                |   Value  |
| ------------------------- | -------- |
|[Coverity](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/gluster-glusterfs)  | 32  |
|[Clang Scan](https://build.gluster.org/job/clang-scan/lastBuild/) |   88  |
|[Test coverage](https://build.gluster.org/job/line-coverage/lastCompletedBuild/Line_20Coverage_20Report/)|    70.9 |
|[Gluster User Queries in last 14 days](https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-users/2021-June/thread.html)        |    7     |
|[Total Github issues](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues)       |    313   |


* Any release updates?

* Blocker issues across the project?
    * In release 9, https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/2462


* Notable thread form mailing list
    * Freenode takeover and GlusterFS IRC channels


### Conferences / Meetups

* [SYSTOR 21](https://www.systor.org/2021/cfp.html)
    * June 14 - June 16,2021
* [SDC India 2021](https://www.snia.org/events/sdcindia)

    * Virtual Conference to be held on August 5, 2021
    * Submission of presentations is OPEN

* Talks related to gluster:
    - None.



### GlusterFS - v10 and beyond
* An issue for the wishlist can be created in the repo.

### Developer focus

* Any design specs to discuss?
    * https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/2479 -- Discussions are happening on the issue itself. Please contribute if any comments are present.



### Component status
* Arbiter - stable/maintained
* AFR - stable/maintained
* DHT - stable/maintained
* EC - stable/maintained
* DOC - stable/maintained
* Geo Replication - stable/maintained
* Glusterd - stable/maintained
* thin-arbiter - stable/maintained



### Recent Blog posts / Document updates
* No new posts recently.


### Host

* Who will host next meeting? [Srijan]
  - Host will need to send out the agenda 24hr - 12hrs in advance to mailing list, and also make sure to send the meeting minutes.
  - Host will need to reach out to one user at least who can talk about their usecase, their experience, and their needs.
  - Host needs to send meeting minutes as PR to http://github.com/gluster/community
  - Host has to send the meeting minutes as a mail to the gluster-devel and gluster-users list.


### Notetaker

* Who will take notes from the next meeting? [Srijan]


### RoundTable
* None


### Action Items on host
* Check-in Minutes of meeting for this meeting

