# Gluster Community Meeting -  13/07/2021


### Previous Meeting minutes:

- [Meeting Minutes](https://github.com/gluster/community/tree/master/meetings)

### Date/Time: Check the [community calendar](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MDQ0YmRydTllMXYzdWFoMmpsbjdqNXJlYmNfMjAyMDEwMjdUMDkwMDAwWiBzYWptb2hhbUByZWRoYXQuY29t&tmsrc=sajmoham%40redhat.com&scp=ALL)

### Bridge
  - 2nd / 4th Tuesday's, 02:30PM IST
  - Bridge: https://meet.google.com/cpu-eiue-hvk


-------

### Attendance
Name (#gluster-dev alias) - company
* Ayush Ujjwal - Red Hat
* Michael Scherer - Red Hat
* Ravi - Red Hat
* Shwetha Acharya - Red Hat
* Pranith Kumar K - PhonePe
* Sunil Kumar Acharya - Red Hat
* Saju Mohammed - Red Hat
* Vinayak Hariharmath - Red Hat
* Sheetal pamecha- Red Hat 
* Seyed - abrNOC
* Sattar Aftabi - abrNOC
* Iliya Valaee - abrNOC
* Ali Shirvani - abrNOC
* Krishna Verma - Cadence Design Systems, Inc
 
### User stories
* https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/2583 - abrNOC
    * VM Workload

### Community

* Project metrics:

|    Metrics                |   Value  |
| ------------------------- | -------- |
|[Coverity](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/gluster-glusterfs)  | 23  |
|[Clang Scan](https://build.gluster.org/job/clang-scan/lastBuild/) |   88  |
|[Test coverage](https://build.gluster.org/job/line-coverage/lastCompletedBuild/Line_20Coverage_20Report/)|    85.4 |
|[Gluster User Queries in last 14 days](https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-users/2021-July/thread.html)        |     3     |
|[Total Github issues](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues)       |    291   |


* Any release updates?
    * Minor release(9.3) coming over this week.
    * Along with 9.3 glusterfs-selinux 2.0.1

* Blocker issues across the project?
    * None


* Notable thread from mailing list
    * https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-users/2021-July/039402.html


### Conferences / Meetups

* [SDC India 2021](https://www.snia.org/events/sdcindia)

    * Virtual Conference to be held on August 5, 2021
    * Submission of presentations is OPEN

* Talks related to gluster:
    - None.



### GlusterFS - v10 and beyond
* None

### Developer focus

* Any design specs to discuss?
    * None



### Component status
* Arbiter - stable/maintained
* AFR - stable/maintained
* DHT - stable/maintained
* EC - stable/maintained
* DOC - stable/maintained
* Geo Replication - stable/maintained
* Glusterd - stable/maintained
* thin-arbiter - stable/maintained



### Recent Blog posts / Document updates
* No recent blogs


### Host

* Who will host next meeting? [Ayush]
  - Host will need to send out the agenda 24hr - 12hrs in advance to mailing list, and also make sure to send the meeting minutes.
  - Host will need to reach out to one user at least who can talk about their usecase, their experience, and their needs.
  - Host needs to send meeting minutes as PR to http://github.com/gluster/community
  - Host has to send the meeting minutes as a mail to the gluster-devel and gluster-users list.


### Notetaker

* Who will take notes from the next meeting? [Ayush]


### RoundTable
* More about [community meetings](https://github.com/gluster/community)


### Action Items on host
* Check-in Minutes of meeting for this meeting

