# Gluster Community Meeting -  27/04/2021


### Previous Meeting minutes:

- http://github.com/gluster/community

### Date/Time: Check the [community calendar](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MDQ0YmRydTllMXYzdWFoMmpsbjdqNXJlYmNfMjAyMDEwMjdUMDkwMDAwWiBzYWptb2hhbUByZWRoYXQuY29t&tmsrc=sajmoham%40redhat.com&scp=ALL)

### Bridge
* 2nd / 4th Tuesday's, 02:30PM IST [GMeet Link](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://meet.google.com/cpu-eiue-hvk?hs%3D122%26authuser%3D0&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1619847762897000&usg=AOvVaw1XG1EM5nnZJrlWUCEVy_Ef)


-------

### Attendance
Name (#gluster-dev alias) - company

- Pranith Kumar Karampuri - PhonePe
- sankarshan (sankarshan) - Kadalu.IO
- Nikhil Ladha - Red Hat
- Shwetha Acharya - Red Hat
- Sunil Kumar - Red Hat
- Frank Batschulat - Oracle
- Ayush Ujjwal - Red Hat
- Nishith - RedHat

### User stories
*    None

### Community

* Project metrics:

|    Metrics                |   Value  |
| ------------------------- | -------- |
|[Coverity](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/gluster-glusterfs)  | 56  |
|[Clang Scan](https://build.gluster.org/job/clang-scan/lastBuild/) |   89  |
|[Test coverage](https://build.gluster.org/job/line-coverage/lastCompletedBuild/Line_20Coverage_20Report/)|    70.5 |
|[Gluster User Queries in last 23 days](https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-users/2021-April/thread.html)        |     47     |
|[Total Github issues](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues)       |    344   |


* Any release updates?
    * New release 8.5 is being planned
    * Fixes need to be backported for release-8 and release-9
    * Release 9.0, 9.1 are not online upgrade friendly because of https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/2351
    

* Blocker / Severe issues across the project?
    * https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/2351
   

* Notable thread from mailing list
    * None


### Conferences / Meetups


* [SYSTOR 21](https://www.systor.org/2021/cfp.html)
    * June 14th - June 16th

* Talks related to gluster:
    - None.

* [SDC India 2021](https://www.snia.org/events/sdcindia)
    * August 5th

### GlusterFS - X and beyond
*    No new updates


### Developer focus

* Any design specs to discuss?
    * None

* Developer session links
    * https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/tree/devel/doc/developer-sessions
    * Upcoming session: Gluster Dev session #5: data structure lifetimes on May 4th: [Meet Link](meet.google.com/tub-yrrj-exa
)


### Component status
* Arbiter - Stable / Maintained
* AFR - Stable / Maintained
* DHT - Stable / Maintained
* EC - Stable / Maintained
* DOC - Stable / Maintained
* Geo Replication - Stable / Maintained
* Glusterd - Stable / Maintained

False positives in the coverity issues have to be taken care.


### Recent Blog posts / Document updates
* [k8s整合glusterfs做后端存储](https://linjinbao666.medium.com/k8s%E6%95%B4%E5%90%88glusterfs%E5%81%9A%E5%90%8E%E7%AB%AF%E5%AD%98%E5%82%A8-9ca9cf610502)
* [Compiling RPMs](https://medium.com/geekculture/compiling-rpms-36ac24970f0e?source=rss------glusterfs-5)


### Host

* Who will host next meeting? [Nikhil]
  - Host will need to send out the agenda 24hr - 12hrs in advance to mailing list, and also make sure to send the meeting minutes.
  - Host will need to reach out to one user at least who can talk about their usecase, their experience, and their needs.
  - Host needs to send meeting minutes as PR to http://github.com/gluster/community
  - Host has to send the meeting minutes as a mail to the gluster-devel and gluster-users list.


### Notetaker

* Who will take notes from the next meeting?


### RoundTable

* No concerns


### Action Items on host
* Check-in Minutes of meeting for this meeting

